.TH dategrep 1
.SH NAME
dategrep - print lines matching a date range
.SH SYNOPSIS
dategrep [-f FROM] [-t TO] [-F FORMAT] [-s] [-m] [FILES...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dategrep
searches the named input
.I FILES
for lines containing a timestamp in the time range
.I FROM
until
.I TO
and prints matching lines.
.PP
If no files are named, or the if a single hyphen is given as file name,
lines are read via stdin. Processing normal files are normally faster
though, as
.I dategrep
can then do a binary search for the first matching line.
.PP
Files with a file name ending in
.I .gz
or
.I .z
will be automatically piped through gzip.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " DATETIME"
Print all lines from DATETIME inclusively.
Defaults to Jan 1, 1970 00:00:00 GMT.
.TP
.BI \-t " DATETIME"
Print all lines until DATESPEC exclusively.
Default to the current time.
.TP
.BI \-F " FORMAT"
Defines a strftime-based FORMAT that is used to parse the input lines
for a date.
The first date found on a line is used.

This is a required parameter.
Alternatively you can supply the format via the environment variable
.I DATEGREP_DEFAULT_FORMAT
.

Additionally, dategrep supports the following named formats:
.RS
.IP *
.B syslog
%b %e %H:%M:%S"
.IP *
.B apache
"%d/%b/%Y:%H:%M:%S %z"
.IP *
.B iso8601
"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S"
.RE
.TP
.B -s
Skip lines without a parsable date.
.TP
.B -m
Enables multiline mode. All lines after a matching line without a date
are printed. Dateless lines before the first matching line are skipped.
.IP -h
Shows a short help message
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.I DATEGREP_DEFAULT_FORMAT
Default for the \f[I]--format\f[] parameter.
The syntax is described there.
.SH LIMITATION
dategrep expects the files to be sorted.
If the timestamps are not ascending, dategrep might be exiting before
the last line in its date range is printed.
.PP
Compressed files are just piped into dategrep via bzcat or gzip.
.SH EXAMPLES
dategrep \-f 12:00 \-t 12:15 \-format "%b %d %H:%M:%S" syslog
.PP
dategrep \-t 12:15 \-F "%b %d %H:%M:%S" syslog
.PP
cat syslog | dategrep -t 12:15
.SH SEE ALSO
\f[I]strftime(2)\f[]
.SH COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
Copyright 2016 Mario Domgoergen <mario@domgoergen.com>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.
If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
